Its certainly not the kind of disaster that typically emerges when video games launch into other mediums. Only time will tell if fans want to keep watching or just wish they were still playing

A decent start that, despite its best efforts, failed to stun me. But it didn't drive me away, either.
A decent start that, despite its best efforts, failed to stun me. But it didn't drive me away, either.

The goal shouldn’t be about being everything to everyone, and while “Halo” treats the source material with respect, it does so with a tentativeness, as if it is afraid to miss a key element.

Overall, it admirably delivers an experience that does right by Master Chief's most loyal fans, while also inviting newcomers to dive into its engrossing universe.

How the show is written demonstrates a very rudimentary style of storytelling that values embellished dramatic flare over an authentic episodic experience.

Halo jukes away from what fans knew of the game's canon, but its literal and metaphorical undressing of its iconic main character is its biggest strength.

The video game Halo excelled at letting players become the hero with the new Halo TV series, audiences are instead saddled with a series devoid of a soul.

The series boasts an impressive budget used wisely, with distinct production design distinguishing one planetary location for another and spaceships zipping through endless stars. That alone lets Halo keep apace with its contemporaries.

With gorgeous production design, impressive visuals and thrilling action -- not to mention a solid cast and a healthy respect for its roots as one of the most successful video game franchises in history -- Halo is off to a very auspicious beginning.

Boasting no technological innovation to speak of, few performances to offer meaningful grounding and only limited action thrills, Halo is aggressively forgettable, which is at least several steps up from “bad.”

Halo is shamelessly derivative, but it is fun to watch. It's like a TV-MA version of Star Wars. It's a Steven Spielberg-produced blockbuster show that feels more like it came from his pal George Lucas.

Paramounts adaptation of the mega-hit video game series shines when digging into the Master Chiefs long-suppressed sense of self and the schemes of the galaxys power players.

The world-building is impressive, and Pablo Schreiber is an excellent choice for Master Chief. A few ideas do not translate as well as they intend, but the potential is there.

I dont see much in these early episodes to make investing in a full season worthwhile. Halo does not come remotely close to any of the other sci-fi or fantasy series out there and represents yet another mediocre video game adaptation.

The series has more of The Mandalorian vibe. For genre fans, they will get what they came for out of the Halo series. As an adaptation, gamers will have to adjust their expectations and keep an open mind while enjoying the Easter Eggs.

The frustrating thing about Halo is that it tries to serve two masters -- diehard Halo fans and newbies who are used to the normal rhythms of sci-fi streaming series -- and doesn’t quite please either.

Will it end up propagandistic and committing to an idea that some of the excesses of warfare are necessary or acceptable? Almost definitely. But it’ll probably be a fun ride, and hopefully a good story.

It’s exactly what you expect. While Halo features a few minor pivots in these early hours, there’s very little to spoil and even less to spark curiosity that’s not already present.

As much as the premiere focuses on capturing the iconic weapons and technology from the games, it also shows a willingness to move its story in dramatically different directions

While it holds almost no reverence for its source material, and features some unnecessary plots, Halo: The Series still manages to tell a strong sci-fi tale about free will that forges its own path forward.

This adds so much to the Halo universe that we know and love while remaining faithful to the universe, if diverging from some previous stigma's i.e. Master Chief removing his helmet, that I think have been done for the right reasons and really well. The main critique that most people I have spoken to have of it is it's lack of combat in many episodes, it's more about the people in those episodes, which to be honest I absolutely love. It's making the fate of the universe about more than Master Chief, and that's perfect. However when combat is in an episode, my goodness it's fantastic. I would say there are some things that I would have done differently, like the set on the last episode having too clean sand, the death of a character who I would have loved to have seen more of, etc. The Halo tv series delivers so much more than just a single person fighting an endless flood of enemies, it makes you understand and care about the people around master chief too, and I'm really looking forward to them actually reaching the Halo and seeing how the story progresses from there. I think next season will be fantastic. Personally I'm hoping that Master Chief is not as alone as he was in the games once reaching the Halo. I loved this series and I can't wait for the next season.

Halo is an epic war tale of human sacrifice and courage in the face of destruction. This TV show is none of that. It had taken the core aspects of what made Halo great, tossed it out the window and replaced it with generic tropes and bad writing. Moreover the CGI is the most lackluster I have ever seen and don't even get me started on the characters. Their behavior and dialogue appears to have been written by a teenage girl trying to be edgy. It is cringy and out of place in a mature story. And lastly the Master Chief. In the original story he is a hero a man that can carry humanity when all hope is lost. Master Cheeks on the other hand is an emotional mess and selfish. Not a likable hero at all. We only care about him, because Paramount made him "special".

Pretty fun. Great effects! Feels like the world of Halo. You see a more story compacted version of what the Halo Universe has to offer. So while, yes, Chief is out of suit a ton, remember this is a tv series take, why would he need to be in suit 24/7 if he's on base dealing with story. That would make no damn sense.

This show might be better if it wasn't attached to the Halo franchise. Or it might be okay if you know nothing about Halo. I've honestly done by best to watch this show without bias, but as a long time Halo fan this show is bad and is a disappointment. Characters magically teleport all over the universe, much like they did in season 8 of GOT. I can't find a reason to care about Kwan or John's spartan pirate friend. What's his name? Who cares. The oppressor of the desert planet? Who cares. Secret monks in the desert? Who cares. I think the creators thought we might be coerced to care if they loosely tie in Halo references with all of these boring things, but it doesn't work. Not to mention a chase scene where the vehicles are going 10 mph, but we're supposed to believe they're doing 80 mph. How long has this been in the works for? Nearly 10 years? The fact that they've already picked this show up for another season feels like Paramount marketing trying to convince us that this is, in fact, a good show. It is not.

This was amazing! Just go into it knowing it's a fresh take on the halo universe and not just a copy of the games. The visual and story is so good on the eyes and mind I can't wait for more. Give me season 2!

An absolute slap in the face to long time fans, and the poor introduction for new comers to the franchise. Though the series has a few (vary few) highlights it's heavily barred down by incoherent dialogue, awful pacing , and questionable decisions by the show runners. This series is a horrible misconception of the beloved 20+ year franchise and should be avoided and forgotten about.