Kean University started building ties with the country in 1998, when the university enrolled close to 200 public officials, mostly from Zhejiang Province, in a Kean master's degree program in public administration. Over the years, Kean staff members have visited China 10 times, with President Dawood Farahi making two visits himself.

The City of Wenzhou, Wenzhou University and Zhejiang Province selected Kean University as its partner because of that longstanding relationship. Two classes each of 25 Wenzhou officials traveled to Kean University since then and spent 15 months earning Master of Public Administration degrees. These same officials had risen in government positions in the province and reached out to Kean to establish the full University campus in Wenzhou.

On May 8, 2006 Kean University President Dawood Farahi and a Chinese education department official signed the documents that would permit the construction of Kean University in China at a formal ceremony on Kean's Union Township campus. They were surrounded by high-ranking Communist Party officials from Zhejiang, the province where Kean University-Wenzhou would have been located.

Wenzhou-Kean University is a Chinese-American jointly established higher education institution with independent legal person status and limited liabilities. On November 16, 2011, the Ministry of Education of the People’s Republic of China approved the application of preparation on establishing Wenzhou-Kean University that is cooperatively run by Wenzhou University and Kean University USA. On December 16, 2013, the Ministry of Education Panel led by Prof. HUANG Wei, the Academician from Chinese Academy of Sciences inspected and reviewed the application works for the establishment of the University. 
Wenzhou-Kean University (WKU), set on approximately 500 acres in the beautiful mountainous region located in the south of Wenzhou, China, is one of three Sino-American cooperative universities along with NYU Shanghai and Duke Kunshan University that was approved by the Ministry of Education of China. Launched in 2012, WKU offers a unique model of higher education in partnership with Kean University, a comprehensive, public university in the state of New Jersey that is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. WKU currently enrolls about 3,500 undergraduate students (Fall 2021), and it is now in the midst of a rapid growth that will bring enrollment to 7,000 students within the next five years. All instruction is in English, and all curriculum is provided by Kean University. Students earn degrees conferred by Kean University and Wenzhou-Kean University.

Wenzhou-Kean University currently offers 18 undergraduate programs: Finance (B.S.), Accounting (with emphasis on international standards and practices) (B.S.), Global Business (B.S.), Marketing (B.S.), Management (Business Analytics option/ Supply Chain & Information Management option) (B.S.), Economics (B.S.), Graphic Design (B.F.A.), Interior Design (B.F.A), Industrial Design (B.I.D.), Architectural Studies (B.A.), Computer Science (B.S.), Mathematical Sciences (Supply Chain and Management Information option and Analytics Option) (B.A.), Biology (Cell and Molecular option) (B.S.), Chemistry (B.S.), Earth Science (Environmental Science option) (B.S.), English (English in Global Settings option) (B.A.), Psychology (General option/Forensic Psychology option) (B.A.), and Communication (Public Relations option) (B.A.). In addition, WKU has been approved by the Ministry of Education for offering 8 Master’s and 3 doctorate programs. In academic year of 2022-2023, WKU offers the following graduate programs: Doctor of Educational Leadership (Ed.D.), Biotechnology Science (M.S.), Computer Information Systems (M.S.), Instruction and Curriculum (M.A.), Global Management (M.B.A.), Architecture (M.Arch.), Educational Administration (M.A.), Psychology (M.A.). Kean courses are offered either by faculty recruited by global search or by Kean faculty visiting from the U.S. campus. The Division of Academic Affairs is led by Dr. Eric Yang, the Vice-Chancellor for Academic Affairs, since March 2018.

The campus initially comprised a General Education Hall, a Training Building, two dining halls, the student dormitory complex, and the faculty housing complex. The College of Business and Public Management Building and the Athletics Center were brought into operation in 2018. The second student dormitory complex, the Ge Hekai Building housing Architecture, Design and Computer Science programs, the Science Laboratory Building, and the Stadium have been completed in 2021. The Student Learning and Activity (Library) and WKU Administration Building will be completed in 2022, and the College of Science and Technology building is expected to be completed in 2023. The second student dormitory complex and the second faculty housing complex in the east campus will be completed in the next three years.